{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 TrebuchetMS;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker }{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker }{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li180\fi-180\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
EMOTIONS\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Noting Practice\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0

\i\b0\fs22 \cf0 \'93When I took this course I was going through a very difficult time. It provided me better ways to handle the situations I was facing, and helped me get through. I now feel I have a great set of tools to help reduce stress and increase happiness in my life." \'96 2016 Participant
\i0  \
\
This strategy will help you effectively neutralize negative thoughts and manage your stress response, or \'93OH #$%^&*!!!!\'94 moments.  \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Use when
\b0 : \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f0\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
You are stuck in a negative thought loop of self-criticism, re-hashing, or obsessing \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f0\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
You are in the throes of a \'93fight or flight\'94 stress response. This is when your reptilian brain takes taken over your rational brain, known as \'93amygdala hijack,\'94 which is very useful when you need to react instantaneously (e.g. to avoid a car accident or run from a mugger), but often incredibly unhelpful when you need to interact with people in an intelligent way. \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Benefits
\b0 :\
\pard\tx405\tx720\tx720\pardeftab720\li765\fi-765\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f0\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Learning to defuse negative thoughts significantly decreases anxiety and depression.
\fs14\fsmilli7333 \super 1,2
\fs22 \nosupersub \
\pard\tx405\tx720\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\f0\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Quick recovery from stress will enable you to be more be more focused and productive, and help you handle conflict and crises more effectively. This has enormous benefit in relationships and work.
\fs14\fsmilli7333 \super 3
\fs22 \nosupersub \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Instructions
\b0 : Practice the following steps when you are having negative thoughts or a stress reaction. \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}
\f0\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Notice: as soon as you notice you are having negative thoughts, or a negative emotional reaction, take a deep breath, and bring your attention to what you are thinking and feeling. \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}
\f0\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Accept: rather than trying to ignore, resist or otherwise change your thoughts and emotions, try to accept them. It can help to imagine that you are a nonjudgmental, compassionate observer, narrating your experience.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}
\f0\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Narrate: name whatever you are thinking and feeling, \'93noting\'94 your experience out loud or to yourself, e.g. \'93You\'92re feeling tense and angry and you\'92re thinking this isn\'92t fair.\'94\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 When you\'92ve finished, take a couple of slow, deep breathes, and return your attention to the task at hand or your next steps.\
It\'92s easy to forget these steps when we need them most, so please take a moment to create an \'93Oh #$%^&*!!!! Plan\'94 to remind yourself to Notice, Accept, and Narrate (NAAN) negative thoughts or feelings. It may be helpful to carry a pebble in your pocket, wear a bracelet or rubber band around your wrist, or choose a new screensaver image as a reminder, or develop a plan that will work for you. \
1. Pocket Pebble\
2. Bracelet\
3. Image \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 TIP: \ulnone The Happiness Paradox\ul \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone The media inundates us with the message that we\'92re 
\i supposed
\i0  to be happy. This can make us feel bad about feeling bad, and lead to trying to suppress, ignore or deny difficult emotions. Unfortunately, this only makes these emotions stronger and more persistent.
\fs14\fsmilli7333 \super 4,5
\fs22 \nosupersub  \
Bottom Line: If you want to be happier, accept negative feelings and remind yourself they will pass.  \
}